[SSL/TLS] Bring in PQC content to Dev Docs (#18165)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/ssl/post-quantum-cryptography/pqc-to-origin.mdx

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Post-quantum between Cloudflare and origin servers
sidebar:
  order: 3
  label: PQC to your origin
head: []
description: Learn about post-quantum cryptography in connections from Cloudflare to your origin servers.
---

As explained in [About PQC](/ssl/post-quantum-cryptography/), Cloudflare has deployed support for hybrid key agreements, which include both the most common key agreement for TLS 1.3, X25519, and the post-quantum secure ML-KEM.

> However, while with X25519 the [ClientHello](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/what-happens-in-a-tls-handshake/) almost always fits within one network packet, with ML-KEM the ClientHello has to be split over two network packets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

With X25519, the [ClientHello](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/what-happens-in-a-tls-handshake/) almost always fits within one network packet. However, with the addition of ML-KEM, the ClientHello is typically split across two packets.
```

> This poses a question of how the origin servers - as well as other middleboxes (routers, load balancers, etc) - will handle this behavior. Although allowed by the TLS standard, a split ClientHello risks not being handled well due to [protocol ossification](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protocol_ossification) and implementation bugs. Refer to our [blog post](https://blog.cloudflare.com/post-quantum-to-origins/) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This poses a question of how the origin servers - as well as other middleboxes (routers, load balancers, etc) - will handle this change in behavior. Although allowed by the TLS 1.3 standard ([RFC 8446](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8446)), a split ClientHello risks not being handled well due to [protocol ossification](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protocol_ossification) and implementation bugs. Refer to our [blog post](https://blog.cloudflare.com/post-quantum-to-origins/) for details.
```

## ClientHello from Cloudflare

> To reduce the risk of any issues when connecting to servers that are not ready for hybrid key agreements, Cloudflare leverages HelloRetryRequest. This means that, instead of sending [X25519MLKEM768](/ssl/post-quantum-cryptography/#hybrid-key-agreement) immediately as a keyshare [^1], Cloudflare will only advertise support for it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reduce the risk of any issues when connecting to servers that are not ready for hybrid key agreements, Cloudflare leverages HelloRetryRequest. This means that, instead of sending [X25519MLKEM768](/ssl/post-quantum-cryptography/#hybrid-key-agreement) immediately as a keyshare [^1], Cloudflare will by default only advertise support for it.
```

> If the origin supports ML-KEM, it can use HelloRetryRequest to request it from Cloudflare.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the origin supports post-quantum hybrid key agreement, it can use HelloRetryRequest to request it from Cloudflare.
```

It is also possible to opt out of PQC using the same API endpoint.

:::note
This setting affects all outbound connections from the zone you specify in the API call, including `fetch()` requests made by [Workers](/workers/) on your zone.
:::

```bash
curl --request PUT \
"https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/cache/origin_post_quantum_encryption" \
--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "value": "<YOUR_CHOSEN_SETTING>"
}'
```

The possible values are:
- `supported` (most compatible): Advertise support for post-quantum key agreement, but send a classical keyshare in the first ClientHello.
- `preferred` (most performant): Send a post-quantum keyshare in the first ClientHello. Cloudflare continues to advertise support for classical keyshares as well.
- `off`: Do not send nor advertise support for post-quantum key agreement to the origin.

### Origin server

> If you set your Cloudflare zone to `supported`, you can make sure that your origin server will prefer the post-quantum key agreement by using Cloudflare's [fork of BoringSSL](https://github.com/cloudflare/boringssl-pq).

Reviewer: For both `supported ` and `preferred` mode, the `bssl` utility can be used. The only difference is that for checking `supported` mode a user would need to disable the second keyshare hence the (blog)[https://blog.cloudflare.com/post-quantum-to-origins/#testing-whether-your-origin-server-is-configured-correctly] mentions compiling with our custom fork of BoringSSL.

We can rewrite this subsection as:

* Use custom fork of BoringSSL.
* For preferred using simple bssl command.
* For supported use the bssl command with the addition of `-disable-second-keyshare` parameter.

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Post-quantum between Cloudflare and origin servers
sidebar:
  order: 3
  label: PQC to your origin
head: []
description: Learn about post-quantum cryptography in connections from Cloudflare to your origin servers.
---

import { Example } from "~/components";

> As explained in [About PQC](/ssl/post-quantum-cryptography/), Cloudflare has deployed support for hybrid key agreements, which include both the most common key agreement for TLS 1.3, X25519, and the post-quantum secure ML-KEM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As explained in [About PQC](/ssl/post-quantum-cryptography/), Cloudflare has deployed support for hybrid key agreements, which includes both the most common key agreement for TLS 1.3, X25519, and the post-quantum secure ML-KEM.
```

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Post-quantum between Cloudflare and origin servers
sidebar:
  order: 3
  label: PQC to your origin
head: []
description: Learn about post-quantum cryptography in connections from Cloudflare to your origin servers.
---

import { Example } from "~/components";

> As explained in [About PQC](/ssl/post-quantum-cryptography/), Cloudflare has deployed support for hybrid key agreements, which include both the most common key agreement for TLS 1.3, X25519, and the post-quantum secure ML-KEM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As explained in [About PQC](/ssl/post-quantum-cryptography/), Cloudflare has deployed support for hybrid post-quantum key agreements, which include both the most common key agreement for TLS 1.3, X25519, and the post-quantum secure ML-KEM.
```

It is also possible to opt out of PQC using the same API endpoint.

:::note
This setting affects all outbound connections from the zone you specify in the API call, including `fetch()` requests made by [Workers](/workers/) on your zone.
:::

```bash
curl --request PUT \
"https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/cache/origin_post_quantum_encryption" \
--header "Authorization: Bearer <API_TOKEN>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "value": "<YOUR_CHOSEN_SETTING>"
}'
```

The possible values are:
- `supported` (most compatible): Advertise support for post-quantum key agreement, but send a classical keyshare in the first ClientHello.
- `preferred` (most performant): Send a post-quantum keyshare in the first ClientHello. Cloudflare continues to advertise support for classical keyshares as well.
- `off`: Do not send nor advertise support for post-quantum key agreement to the origin.

### Origin server

> To make sure that your origin server prefers the post-quantum key agreement:

Reviewer: I think we should not refer to `boringssl-pq` fork since its deprecated now (and no longer being maintained). In light of that lets simply this section as follows: 

```suggestion
To make sure that your origin server prefers the post-quantum key agreement use the `bssl` tool of [BoringSSL](https://github.com/google/boringssl):

<Example>
```bash
$ bssl client -connect (your server):443 -curves X25519MLKEM768
```
Verify that the `ECDHE curve` in the handshake output indicates `X25519MLKEM768`.
</Example>
```

No need to make distinction between supported and preferred.
